youtube link - https://youtu.be/aOsILFNgtIo


why sentence?
* will help to convey any form of idea.





Basic Concepts =
1) clause - 
* clause is a combination of words with a subject and verb.
ex - ram enjoyed

	A) Types of clause -
	* independant clause ( main clause )
	* dependant clause  (subOrdinating clause)
	
		A) independant clause ( main clause )-
		* it makes complete sense and can stand alone.
		* clause = subject + verb;
		ex. ram shouted
	
		ex. laxman watched a movie.
			(sub)   (verb)   (obj)
	
	
		B) Dependant clause  ( SubOrdinate clause )-
		* something depend on something, like clause, statement or sentence.
		* depend on main clause for its meaning.
		* ex. I went out on the bike that Mary gave me for my birthday.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

2) Coordinating Conjuction =
* helps to independent clauses to come together to form compound sentences.
* FANBOYS - for, and, nor, but, or, yet, so
* Use punctuation, before coordinating conjuction
* It was raining, so I carried an umbrella

------------------------------------------------------------------------
3) Subordinating Conjuction =
* A WHITE BUS - Although, Whenever, However, If, Though, Even if, Because, Unless, Since

------------------------------------------------------------------------




4) Types of Sentence =
1) Simple Sentence - contains only 1 clause and make complete sense independently. It has a subject and a verb or contains one clause.
	ex. Ram is a good boy
	In above one, "ram" is subject and 'is' is helping verb, which create 1 clause. 'a good boy' is object in sentence.

	other ex. Tiger ran

2) Compound Sentence - need 2 indepedent clause (which makes sense independent) with Coordinating Conjuction 
	ex. ram sang and she danced.

3) Complex Sentence - need 1 independent and 1 dependent ( SubOrdinate ) clause with Subordinating Conjuction
	ex. She smiled because I cracked a Joke.
	ex. If she calls, let me know.

4) Compound Complex Sentence - 2 or more Independent clauses and 1 or more subordinate clauses With "Coordinating Conjuction" and "Subordinating Conjuction"
* connected with conjuctions
    ex. My son cried when i left the room, but i didn't hear.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


Connectors and linking words = 
* 14 categories -
1) Explanation - tries to explain 
	a) Namely - while explaining, to add point ( I have a good reason not to talk to him. Namely, he is always rude to me. )
	b) In Other words - if first statement negative, add positive statement using with In other words ( Don't be rude when ypu are successful. In Other words, be down to earth )
	c) Put Differently - to explain it more ( we aren't talking to each other anymore. Put differently, we had break up ).

2) Emphasize - Put more emphasis on particular fact.
	a) as a matter of fact - ( He was quite late yesterday. As a matter of fact, I couldn't sleep until he arrived. )
	b) in fact - ( I didn't fail the exam; in fact I did rather well. )
	c) actually - ( you should gift her something expensive. Actually, a car won't be a bad idea. )
	d) indeed - I was annoyed, indeed furious, over what happened.

3) Correction -
* rather - 
to be more precise

* Example-
For example
To illustrate
for instance

* particularization
in particular
particularly
more specifically


* Dismissal
Anyway
anyhow
at any rate

* conclusion
in conclusion
to sum up
in brief
all in all

* Time
At first
afterwards
later
in the meantime
meanwhile

*result
as a result
as a consequence
therefore
thus
accordingly

* order of importance
most importantly
primarily
above all
most significantly
essentially

* similarity
similarly
in the same way
likewise
also
correspondingly

*focusing
as for
regarding
talking of
with respect to
with regard to
as regards,
as far as.... concerned

*contrast
However
in contrast
nevertheless
on the contrary
nonetheless
yet
on the other hand
by comparison
instead
in any case
all the same


* sequencing
first, firstly, first of all, in the first place
to begin with
for one thing
for another thing
also
besides
in addition
furthermore
morever
finally
last or lastly



Tense -
A) Simple present - verb + "s"/"es"
* ram plays cricket
* we play cricket
* Sita does play cricket
* we do play cricket
Rules - 
1) whenever we have single noun, we will use verb with "s"/"es". For plural noun, we will use only verb in Simple present.
2) when we use do/does in simple present, we use just main verb only
3) Do use with "I / we / they" And does use with "he / she / it / ram / sita"

use of Simple Present -
* used for regular habits/ repeated actions. 
eg. 	I wakes up in early morning. 
	She uses her vehicle to go office.
* to talk about Universal truths and facts
eg.	water boils at 100 degree
	Teenagers don't generally have much money
* To talk about permanent situations
eg. 	I own a house
	she lives in bangalore
* to talk about movies, books etc.
eg. 	In movie, Kattapa kills bahubali
	Fictional books are full of stories
* to give directions and instructions
eg.	to start your laptop, press power button


B) Present Continuous
* am/is/are + v + -ing
* to talk about actions happening at the moment of speaking
eg. 	I'm watching TV.
	She is waiting for her friend
* To talk about changing situations
eg.	The price of onions is rapidly changing
* To talk about temporary situations
eg.	I'm living in Bangalore at the moment
	she is working really hard for job interview


C) Simple past
* verb + -ed (or -d)
* verb + did + verb
eg. 	ram played cricket
	Sita didn't play cricket
	Did they play cricket?
* Rules -
1) whenever we use "did", kindly use verb without "ed".
eg. Ram did play cricket.

* use of simple past
* to talk about completed actions. often the time is mentioned
eg. 	I completed my assignment yesterday
	She finished the race.
* to talk about series of actions in the order
eg.	I studied in the school and then I moved to bangalore. there i started working in MNC.
	I went to the bookstore, took a book and later came back home.
* to talk about situations in the past which are not true anymore
eg.	My dad worked for the police for 20 years


D) Past continuous
* was/were + verb + -ing
eg.	She was living in india
	She was not living in india
	was she living in india?
* To give background scene to an action
eg.	She was lying in her bed when thieves entered the house.
	Ram was driving his car while a car hit him from back
* To focus on activity without focusing on its completion
eg.	Last year I was working in theatre, studying for my degree and teaching yoga

* used to and would
used to - to show activity which daily happened
formula - 
used to/would + infinitive  -  Ram used to/would drive the car.
did not + use to + infinitive  - Ram didn't use to drive the car.
did ---- use to + infinitive - Did ram use to drive the car?
eg.	she used to cook for me
	



----------------------------------------------------------------

https://www.quora.com/Which-is-the-best-books-for-those-who-want-to-improve-their-English-communication

1) I am gonna tell you the most effective technique for developing good english speaking skills.

Read carefully.

You can do it simply by following these simple steps.

If you try sincerely you can see lots of changes within a month only.

Requirement-

A smartphone.

Method -

Start making videos from your front camera and speak about yourself in English, you will fumble still make videos and watch it later . With a few more tries you'll get better.
Speak about your family members and friends.
Speak about the things you did on that particular day.
Speak about your future plans.
Read the newspaper and speak about the contents of the news.
Speak about your subjects of Interest.
Speak about sports and politics.
Speak about things you feel important for yourself.
Speak on any topic in question-answer format and you won't feel the need of a partner for this.
Keep making videos on everything you know. you'll observe

first few times you didn't had much to say,
you fumbled,
you went completely blank on few things .
Watching videos will show you your faults.
Check out if you're using correct grammar or not
Rectify your faults and make the next video
Try to be confident while speaking.
Keep on making videos unless you are satisfied with youself.
But after a few bad attempts you'll be better then the previous time.

You will be more fluent.
You will be more confident.
You will speak with clarity.
You will also develop good content.
You will fumble less.
Do this for atleast 20 min daily, If you like the method you can do it for hours as it has no harms.

Be sincere with your efforts. All the best.

2) 
maximum of my friends done English speaking classes. I asked everyone can they speak English with confidence, but none of them is able to say yes, only one of them said yes I can speak confidently. I gave him simple topic Ganesh Festival. He speaks lot in English. Everyone of us surprised . We said how??? He is common guy who can hardly prepare to get passing marks in English subject, he is now speaking in front of us in English.

He told classes are okk but they teach only grammar n take little group discussions in classes but it doesn't work in my case. Only advantage I got from that is my basic grammar is ok now.

He told if you can manage to learn grammar at home then there is no need to join this type of classes and it is wasting of money.

I said if this is so then, what should we do to learn English and speak?

He told me,

Every new born baby don't go to learn their mother tongue at particular class, he start talking any word by hearing from peoples. He makes many mistake but we enjoy them talking like this. Then as he grow up he learn to speak and understand how to talk,etc. Likewise, we should start directly talking in English. If you have fear of peoples laugh then you can not speak English. At starting they laugh but then they claps for us. ☺

He gave me some tips below give-

Read any English book or news paper try to understand it, if you can't understand then take dictionary with help of dictionary understand that lines.
Buy one register, while reading when you find any new word write down it in your register with pronunciation and its meaning in your mother tongue. Read those words daily once or twice.
If you bored reading text books then buy novel of love story. Those novels are very interesting. Chetan Bhagats novel are romantic. You can try different also.
Watch movies in English with subtitles.
Listen music in English.
Try to make conversation in English in your friend circle. Make that rule that nobody speak in other language.
If you want to talk with professional people then you can call any customer care it is free if cost for many companies. Talk them with their products, complaint them for their product, Give them suggestion if you want.
Write some lines daily in English.
make chats in English language.
And most important thing is when we speak English then we think in our mother tongue and then convert it in English. Start to think in English and then talk in English.
Follow this regularly until u can make conversations in English.

Good Luck
